[MUSIC]
>> Scott Moss: Components.
This is where the fun happens.
This is where you start to see
how this stuff comes together,
because it's kind of crazy at first,
but it's fun.
So again, a component is a widely
used term, but we'll be using it
as a reference to a composition of
functionality, UI, state, and also tests.
I know everybody writes
tests all the time, right?
>> [LAUGH]
>> Scott Moss: Yeah nobody writes tests
man, I swear it.
Unless you work at like Pivotal Labs or
something.
And then nobody else writes it.
So components of a component, so
here's a directory structure of
what a component will look like.
So let's say our component's
name is profile.
So we have our profile folder and
inside of it we have a profile.js,
a profile.directive.js,
profile.controller.js,
profile.whatever flavor of
CSS you want to use, and
a template for it and
also the tests for it.
So these are just the naming conventions
that I came up, that work for me.
You can call them whatever you want.
This is just works for me.
So this is not in John Popa
style guide somewhere or
some like that, this is just what
works for me so I started using it.
So this is how I organize stuff.
So a little more deeply about
what's happening in these files.
So component.js or
in this case profile.js.
This is our entry file for the component.
So this is like what
home.js is kind of doing.
Home.js is just a little more, but this
is like the entry file for the component.
So this is where we would start
when we go to import our component,
the name.js of that component.
So in this case, profile.js.
It creates the angular module and
registers the directive to it, right?
So, it's not going to
define the directive,
but it's going to register the directive.
You'll see that means in a big difference,
it's a big difference.
Also, if you need it routing,
this is where you would do it.
So anything dealing with
like angular stuff.
It would go in this file.
Everything else is nothing
to do with angular.
It's like completely outside of angular,
so it's regular ES 2015, and
then we're going to bring into this
file and tell angular about it.
And you'll see why that works in a minute,
especially in testing,
because you just test things without
angular even caring, which is great.
Any questions about that component.js?
So component.controller.js,
again just my naming convention,
you can call whatever you want,
this is the controller file
where we create the controller for
component's directive.
That's why it's called controller.js.
But the key right here is the controller
for our component's directive.
It's not a controller for a template,
just willy nilly somewhere
else we'd have to reroute.
Its not that.
It's an actual controller for a directive.
That means all our directives
will have controllers now.
We won't be using- you know
like when you make a directive,
you'll never put a controller on
a directive unless it's like a container
directive and
has like mini directives inside it.
Like if you were building a tab system,
they have like a tab container directive,
and it has a controller.
That's the only time you'd
ever use a controller,
other than that you'd just use link,
right?
Not the case anymore.
You can use a controller like every
single time now for your directives.
Then, of course you will use links
when you have multiple instances
of the same directive, but
if they all use the same controller,
then you might have some problems.
So you might need links then,
but at very minimal they all
will probably have controllers.
Unless they're like attributes and
not components themselves.
So yeah, this is where we're gonna find
our controller, inside this file, and
it's gonna belong to the component.
>> Scott Moss: So component.directive.js,
this is where we create the directive
that will be the meat and
potatoes of our component.
So it also has a responsibility of
importing the styles and the template.
So we know that, from this directory
structure here, we know that each
component has a template, and
it has some styles associated with it.
So inside of the directive file, its job
is to import the styles and the template.
Yes?
>> Speaker 2: This is sort
of inverting my sense of
the stuff I'm working on.
Is that the controller has like
everything, you know, it's really like
huge, and the directive is about this big.
>> Scott Moss: Yes, so the whole
point is you want skinny controllers.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: You don't want big
controllers.
The smaller your controllers can be,
the better they're going to be.
And I'm going to show you how to do that.
And that's, mainly, pretty much putting
everything in a factory or service.
Pretty much.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Scott Moss: Because what happens is,
the reason you're controllers
are big is because you're making
maintaining state.
>> Speaker 2: Yeah.
>> Scott Moss: If you don't need
to maintain state, then your controls
go from this to this, right?
I'll show you put about that when we
get to the common components section.
The directive is where it imports
the styles and the HTML, and
it creates the function that's gonna
be called by angular to return the DDO,
or the directive definition object.
So the other files are self-explanatory,
when I say other files, I'm talking about
the spec, the CSS, the HTML,
they are exactly what they say they are.
So, this set up allows for easy testing
and flexibility, reusability is on
the maximum for sure, because we're
creating a new module each time.
So again, I can take that module and
put it in, anybody's repo who has
the same dependencies and build system as
me, and it should work exactly the same.
Unless they're messing around with,
we have like CSS name clashes or whatever,
but it should work exactly the same.
>> Scott Moss: But
one more thing you also need to do is
that- so we create these components, but
they're still not gonna work.
And you probably found out before,
you have to register the components
with some type of parent, right?
So like in our example, we have home.
If we didn't export this home and
imported somewhere else,
we would never know about it.
It would just be here,
it'd just be a file.
It's just like downloading something from
bower, and like never adding a script tag.
That's exactly what would happen.
That's all you did.
So you need to export it, and
then import it somewhere else.
And because your using angular,
not only do you need to import it,
you also need to register it
with the angular module too.
So you gotta do two things.
Import it to ES 2015,
register it with angular.
So remember that, that's all you gotta do.
So that's why app.js, we imported it,
and then we registered it.
So remember you have to do that.
If you don't, it'll just be sitting
there and nothing will happen.
Any questions on that?
Remember that.
People always forget that.
Totally remember that one.
I forget that one all the time.
I got stuck for three hours one time.
Because I couldn't figure out
why this thing wasn't working.
But I was like 30 components deep,
and I couldn't figure it out.
There were no errors because
the thing never got loaded up.
So because webpack allows us to
treat anything as a module and
has an extensive plugin community, we can
import more than just javascipt files.
So we talked about this, right?
So like css/stylus/less/sass, anything.
PNG's, JPEG's, again, anything we
want to import, we can import it.
You just have to find
an appropriate loader.
And in fact, if you try to import
something with webpack and
it can't, it will tell you like, "Yo,
I don't have the loader for this".
It'll just tell you like "I
don't know how to handle this,
you never told me how to handle this".
"I can do it,
you've just got to tell me how".
It'll tell you in the terminal, I don't
know, I don't know what you want me to do,
just figure it out.
So it can handle anything.
This setup is exactly like web components.
It's very similar, at least, except for
one thing, and that's the CSS closure.
Does anyone know what I mean
when I say CSS closure?
>> Speaker 3: But good morning.
CSS closure?
>> Scott Moss: CSS closure, yeah.
It's a real thing.
>> Speaker 3: Like CSS that only knows
about- it's encapsulated.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah the CSS
is encapsulated.
Like with a directive,
we make an isolate scope,
our job description is encapsulated,
and that's great.
But there's nothing protecting our CSS.
So, if I were to bring my component in
your angular file inside of my home.style.
I had this stuff, right, and
mine got a loaded up before yours did, and
then you had another file that
also has some stuff like this.
Yours would overwrite mine, I don't
have any closure, I need protection.
At web components you do.
You have to like specifically
go into the web component,
like I really want to change this, right?
You can't change it by accident.
Where we don't get that here, that's the
one thing we don't get with this setup,
because it's not real web components.
But other than that, you still get
the protection of your JavaScript being
encapsulated and stuff like that.
>> Speaker 4: You kind of like,
if you go back to that kind stylus file.
And you kind of like name space those,
like if this is like less for
you that you have invested?
And the title and items,
and then they're kind of,
they have to be within .home.
>> Scott Moss: Yes they have to be.
Yes, I mean there's ways you can make
a really really hard, almost impossible.
Even webpack will allow you to,
I don't know the exact syntax, but
it will allow you to use something
like hash, or something like that.
So you can like get the hash of this file.
And you can use that inside of- like,
it's crazy.
So you can make it as
unique as possible but
like-
>> Speaker 4: You
are still affected by real general.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
So there's still a possibility.
And then, it's like now you
can't even read it [LAUGH].
So it's like what's the point.
So there are some edge cases there.
So yeah, no more link tags,
no more script tags.
There are some cases where you still will
need to add link tags and script tags.
Everything is not on MPM, right?
How do you handle stuff that's not on MPM?
Everything is not on there.
>> Speaker 4: Put it
on MPM.
>> Scott Moss: You could put it on MPM.
There you go.
That's a solution.
Get you some green dots on your GitHub,
you can put it all on MPM.
Or, let's say you wanted to use bower,
you want to download some stuff about
from bower, webpack will allow you
to actually import bower components.
By default it doesn't, but
you can use- webpack actually has
an extensive plugin system that
you can teach it new tricks.
Hey webpack, not only do I want you
to look in the known modules for it,
I also want you to look in, you know,
wherever your bower stuff is,
whether it's components.
Wherever you put your bower stuff,
bower components or lip.
You tell it to look in there and
look in the bower.JSON.
And it will load those things up too.
Now, how it handles those things,
that's up to webpack.
If it detects that it's AMD or
common JS, it'll take care of it.
Hopefully the the person who
made it is responsible and
decided to build it with UMD in mind,
which is universal module definition,
which means it'll work in common JS,
the browser, AMD.
Hopefully they decided to do that,
but if not,
they'll just load it up on
the global windows space.
So that's probably what will happen.
Yes.
>> Speaker 5: Scott,
I got a got two questions here,
one from Danielle M asking,
is there a way to do these CSS and
ES 6 to JS transformations as a build
step for like a distribution.
So like right now we're- our bundled up
JS is loading those dynamically, right?
We don't have on our distribution
index.html some style tags.
>> Scott Moss: Right, right right.
>> Speaker 5: Import, or script tags, or
anything like that.
Is that something you would
do differently in production?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so
in production, I might just keep it all
bundled, but if I was making a library.
Let's say this was not some app, but
this was a library that I was making for
somebody.
And it needed a its own CSS and maybe
some different versions of JavaScript.
Then webpack allows you to define,
by default it only spits out one file.
But you can give an array of
files of entry files, and
it can make bundles of all
those entry files too.
So start all those entries files and
make bundles of all those files and
their modules, and then split those out
at whatever destination you tell them to.
But that's a more advanced configuration,
but yes, you can slowly do that, and
in fact I think that's the best way
to build lives from here on now.
It's just using something like
that because it super easy.
Yes other question.
>> Speaker 5: The other question I think
is actually answered.
It was a question from Heratio H.about,
what about using iffys, but
our bundle.jss is wrapped in an iffy,
so we're not flirting with global
namespace in any sense here.
>> Scott Moss: No we don't need any iffys,
unless you want an iffy in your iffy.
You don't need any iffys.
So yeah we're good.
That's the whole point.
So if I were to come in here and- pretty
much there's no iffy, so we're fine.
But what happens is,
because all this stuff is bundled up.
Let's say I import angular in app.js.
I import angular.
I have this thing at the top.
And all this is going to be bundled, so
that means angular is
at the top of the file.
And then, this imports home.js, so
home.js goes and
gets bundled at the bottom of app.js.
So technically, home.js should have access
to the angular in that same file, right?
And if it ran in a browser, it would.
But Babel wanted to compile if you don't
import angular in the other files.
So even though, honestly speaking,
if this home.js, was,
if I didn't have this in here, and this is
an app.js too, if I have that in here and
this ran in a browser and bundle.js, it
will work, but Babel won't even compile.
Because Babel doesn't know about
app.js when it's looking at this file.
All it does is it sees angular here,
and it's like where's that coming from?
Right, it won't even compile.
But it will run in a browser,
so remember that.